<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>IV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="sundered-hearts" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>
      4 — <i>Sundered Hearts</i>
    </h2>
    <p>
      In the smoking-room of the club-house a cheerful fire was burning, and the
      Oldest Member glanced from time to time out of the window into the
      gathering dusk. Snow was falling lightly on the links. From where he sat,
      the Oldest Member had a good view of the ninth green; and presently, out
      of the greyness of the December evening, there appeared over the brow of
      the hill a golf-ball. It trickled across the green, and stopped within a
      yard of the hole. The Oldest Member nodded approvingly. A good
      approach-shot.
    </p>
    <p>
      A young man in a tweed suit clambered on to the green, holed out with easy
      confidence, and, shouldering his bag, made his way to the club-house. A
      few moments later he entered the smoking-room, and uttered an exclamation
      of rapture at the sight of the fire.
    </p>
    <p>
      "I'm frozen stiff!"
    </p>
    <p>
      He rang for a waiter and ordered a hot drink. The Oldest Member gave a
      gracious assent to the suggestion that he should join him.
    </p>
    <p>
      "I like playing in winter," said the young man. "You get the course to
      yourself, for the world is full of slackers who only turn out when the
      weather suits them. I cannot understand where they get the nerve to call
      themselves golfers."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Not everyone is as keen as you are, my boy," said the Sage, dipping
      gratefully into his hot drink. "If they were, the world would be a better
      place, and we should hear less of all this modern unrest."
    </p>
    <p>
      "I <i>am</i> pretty keen," admitted the young man.
    </p>
    <p>
      "I have only encountered one man whom I could describe as keener. I allude
      to Mortimer Sturgis."
    </p>
    <p>
      "The fellow who took up golf at thirty-eight and let the girl he was
      engaged to marry go off with someone else because he hadn't the time to
      combine golf with courtship? I remember. You were telling me about him the
      other day."
    </p>
    <p>
      "There is a sequel to that story, if you would care to hear it," said the
      Oldest Member.
    </p>
    <p>
      "You have the honour," said the young man. "Go ahead!"
    </p>
    <hr />
    <p>
      Some people (began the Oldest Member) considered that Mortimer Sturgis was
      too wrapped up in golf, and blamed him for it. I could never see eye to
      eye with them. In the days of King Arthur nobody thought the worse of a
      young knight if he suspended all his social and business engagements in
      favour of a search for the Holy Grail. In the Middle Ages a man could
      devote his whole life to the Crusades, and the public fawned upon him.
      Why, then, blame the man of today for a zealous attention to the modern
      equivalent, the Quest of Scratch! Mortimer Sturgis never became a scratch
      player, but he did eventually get his handicap down to nine, and I honour
      him for it.
    </p>
    <p>
      The story which I am about to tell begins in what might be called the
      middle period of Sturgis's career. He had reached the stage when his
      handicap was a wobbly twelve; and, as you are no doubt aware, it is then
      that a man really begins to golf in the true sense of the word. Mortimer's
      fondness for the game until then had been merely tepid compared with what
      it became now. He had played a little before, but now he really buckled to
      and got down to it. It was at this point, too, that he began once more to
      entertain thoughts of marriage. A profound statistician in this one
      department, he had discovered that practically all the finest exponents of
      the art are married men; and the thought that there might be something in
      the holy state which improved a man's game, and that he was missing a good
      thing, troubled him a great deal. Moreover, the paternal instinct had
      awakened in him. As he justly pointed out, whether marriage improved your
      game or not, it was to Old Tom Morris's marriage that the existence of
      young Tommy Morris, winner of the British Open Championship four times in
      succession, could be directly traced. In fact, at the age of forty-two,
      Mortimer Sturgis was in just the frame of mind to take some nice girl
      aside and ask her to become a step-mother to his eleven drivers, his
      baffy, his twenty-eight putters, and the rest of the ninety-four clubs
      which he had accumulated in the course of his golfing career. The sole
      stipulation, of course, which he made when dreaming his daydreams was that
      the future Mrs. Sturgis must be a golfer. I can still recall the horror in
      his face when one girl, admirable in other respects, said that she had
      never heard of Harry Vardon, and didn't he mean Dolly Vardon? She has
      since proved an excellent wife and mother, but Mortimer Sturgis never
      spoke to her again.
    </p>
    <p>
      With the coming of January, it was Mortimer's practice to leave England
      and go to the South of France, where there was sunshine and crisp dry
      turf. He pursued his usual custom this year. With his suit-case and his
      ninety-four clubs he went off to Saint Brule, staying as he always did at
      the Hotel Superbe, where they knew him, and treated with an amiable
      tolerance his habit of practising chip-shots in his bedroom. On the first
      evening, after breaking a statuette of the Infant Samuel in Prayer, he
      dressed and went down to dinner. And the first thing he saw was Her.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mortimer Sturgis, as you know, had been engaged before, but Betty Weston
      had never inspired the tumultuous rush of emotion which the mere sight of
      this girl had set loose in him. He told me later that just to watch her
      holing out her soup gave him a sort of feeling you get when your drive
      collides with a rock in the middle of a tangle of rough and kicks back
      into the middle of the fairway. If golf had come late in life to Mortimer
      Sturgis, love came later still, and just as the golf, attacking him in
      middle life, had been some golf, so was the love considerable love.
      Mortimer finished his dinner in a trance, which is the best way to do it
      at some hotels, and then scoured the place for someone who would introduce
      him. He found such a person eventually and the meeting took place.
    </p>
    <hr />
    <p>
      She was a small and rather fragile-looking girl, with big blue eyes and a
      cloud of golden hair. She had a sweet expression, and her left wrist was
      in a sling. She looked up at Mortimer as if she had at last found
      something that amounted to something. I am inclined to think it was a case
      of love at first sight on both sides.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Fine weather we're having," said Mortimer, who was a capital
      conversationalist.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Yes," said the girl.
    </p>
    <p>
      "I like fine weather."
    </p>
    <p>
      "So do I."
    </p>
    <p>
      "There's something about fine weather!"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Yes."
    </p>
    <p>
      "It's—it's—well, fine weather's so much finer than weather
      that isn't fine," said Mortimer.
    </p>
    <p>
      He looked at the girl a little anxiously, fearing he might be taking her
      out of her depth, but she seemed to have followed his train of thought
      perfectly.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Yes, isn't it?" she said. "It's so—so fine."
    </p>
    <p>
      "That's just what I meant," said Mortimer. "So fine. You've just hit it."
    </p>
    <p>
      He was charmed. The combination of beauty with intelligence is so rare.
    </p>
    <p>
      "I see you've hurt your wrist," he went on, pointing to the sling.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Yes. I strained it a little playing in the championship."
    </p>
    <p>
      "The championship?" Mortimer was interested. "It's awfully rude of me," he
      said, apologetically, "but I didn't catch your name just now."
    </p>
    <p>
      "My name is Somerset."
    </p>
    <p>
      Mortimer had been bending forward solicitously. He overbalanced and nearly
      fell off his chair. The shock had been stunning. Even before he had met
      and spoken to her, he had told himself that he loved this girl with the
      stored-up love of a lifetime. And she was Mary Somerset! The hotel lobby
      danced before Mortimer's eyes.
    </p>
    <p>
      The name will, of course, be familiar to you. In the early rounds of the
      Ladies' Open Golf Championship of that year nobody had paid much attention
      to Mary Somerset. She had survived her first two matches, but her
      opponents had been nonentities like herself. And then, in the third round,
      she had met and defeated the champion. From that point on, her name was on
      everybody's lips. She became favourite. And she justified the public
      confidence by sailing into the final and winning easily. And here she was,
      talking to him like an ordinary person, and, if he could read the message
      in her eyes, not altogether indifferent to his charms, if you could call
      them that.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Golly!" said Mortimer, awed.
    </p>
    <hr />
    <p>
      Their friendship ripened rapidly, as friendships do in the South of
      France. In that favoured clime, you find the girl and Nature does the
      rest. On the second morning of their acquaintance Mortimer invited her to
      walk round the links with him and watch him play. He did it a little
      diffidently, for his golf was not of the calibre that would be likely to
      extort admiration from a champion. On the other hand, one should never let
      slip the opportunity of acquiring wrinkles on the game, and he thought
      that Miss Somerset, if she watched one or two of his shots, might tell him
      just what he ought to do. And sure enough, the opening arrived on the
      fourth hole, where Mortimer, after a drive which surprised even himself,
      found his ball in a nasty cuppy lie.
    </p>
    <p>
      He turned to the girl.
    </p>
    <p>
      "What ought I to do here?" he asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      Miss Somerset looked at the ball. She seemed to be weighing the matter in
      her mind.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Give it a good hard knock," she said.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mortimer knew what she meant. She was advocating a full iron. The only
      trouble was that, when he tried anything more ambitious than a half-swing,
      except off the tee, he almost invariably topped. However, he could not
      fail this wonderful girl, so he swung well back and took a chance. His
      enterprise was rewarded. The ball flew out of the indentation in the turf
      as cleanly as though John Henry Taylor had been behind it, and rolled,
      looking neither to left nor to right, straight for the pin. A few moments
      later Mortimer Sturgis had holed out one under bogey, and it was only the
      fear that, having known him for so short a time, she might be startled and
      refuse him that kept him from proposing then and there. This exhibition of
      golfing generalship on her part had removed his last doubts. He knew that,
      if he lived for ever, there could be no other girl in the world for him.
      With her at his side, what might he not do? He might get his handicap down
      to six—to three—to scratch—to plus something! Good
      heavens, why, even the Amateur Championship was not outside the range of
      possibility. Mortimer Sturgis shook his putter solemnly in the air, and
      vowed a silent vow that he would win this pearl among women.
    </p>
    <p>
      Now, when a man feels like that, it is impossible to restrain him long.
      For a week Mortimer Sturgis's soul sizzled within him: then he could
      contain himself no longer. One night, at one of the informal dances at the
      hotel, he drew the girl out on to the moonlit terrace.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Miss Somerset——" he began, stuttering with emotion like an
      imperfectly-corked bottle of ginger-beer. "Miss Somerset—may I call
      you Mary?"
    </p>
    <p>
      The girl looked at him with eyes that shone softly in the dim light.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Mary?" she repeated. "Why, of course, if you like——"
    </p>
    <p>
      "If I like!" cried Mortimer. "Don't you know that it is my dearest wish?
      Don't you know that I would rather be permitted to call you Mary than do
      the first hole at Muirfield in two? Oh, Mary, how I have longed for this
      moment! I love you! I love you! Ever since I met you I have known that you
      were the one girl in this vast world whom I would die to win! Mary, will
      you be mine? Shall we go round together? Will you fix up a match with me
      on the links of life which shall end only when the Grim Reaper lays us
      both a stymie?"
    </p>
    <p>
      She drooped towards him.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Mortimer!" she murmured.
    </p>
    <p>
      He held out his arms, then drew back. His face had grown suddenly tense,
      and there were lines of pain about his mouth.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Wait!" he said, in a strained voice. "Mary, I love you dearly, and
      because I love you so dearly I cannot let you trust your sweet life to me
      blindly. I have a confession to make, I am not—I have not always
      been"—he paused—"a good man," he said, in a low voice.
    </p>
    <p>
      She started indignantly.
    </p>
    <p>
      "How can you say that? You are the best, the kindest, the bravest man I
      have ever met! Who but a good man would have risked his life to save me
      from drowning?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Drowning?" Mortimer's voice seemed perplexed. "You? What do you mean?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Have you forgotten the time when I fell in the sea last week, and you
      jumped in with all your clothes on——"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Of course, yes," said Mortimer. "I remember now. It was the day I did the
      long seventh in five. I got off a good tee-shot straight down the fairway,
      took a baffy for my second, and—— But that is not the point.
      It is sweet and generous of you to think so highly of what was the merest
      commonplace act of ordinary politeness, but I must repeat, that judged by
      the standards of your snowy purity, I am not a good man. I do not come to
      you clean and spotless as a young girl should expect her husband to come
      to her. Once, playing in a foursome, my ball fell in some long grass.
      Nobody was near me. We had no caddies, and the others were on the fairway.
      God knows——" His voice shook. "God knows I struggled against
      the temptation. But I fell. I kicked the ball on to a little bare mound,
      from which it was an easy task with a nice half-mashie to reach the green
      for a snappy seven. Mary, there have been times when, going round by
      myself, I have allowed myself ten-foot putts on three holes in succession,
      simply in order to be able to say I had done the course in under a
      hundred. Ah! you shrink from me! You are disgusted!"
    </p>
    <p>
      "I'm not disgusted! And I don't shrink! I only shivered because it is
      rather cold."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Then you can love me in spite of my past?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Mortimer!"
    </p>
    <p>
      She fell into his arms.
    </p>
    <p>
      "My dearest," he said presently, "what a happy life ours will be. That is,
      if you do not find that you have made a mistake."
    </p>
    <p>
      "A mistake!" she cried, scornfully.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Well, my handicap is twelve, you know, and not so darned twelve at that.
      There are days when I play my second from the fairway of the next hole but
      one, days when I couldn't putt into a coal-hole with 'Welcome!' written
      over it. And you are a Ladies' Open Champion. Still, if you think it's all
      right——. Oh, Mary, you little know how I have dreamed of some
      day marrying a really first-class golfer! Yes, that was my vision—of
      walking up the aisle with some sweet plus two girl on my arm. You shivered
      again. You are catching cold."
    </p>
    <p>
      "It is a little cold," said the girl. She spoke in a small voice.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Let me take you in, sweetheart," said Mortimer. "I'll just put you in a
      comfortable chair with a nice cup of coffee, and then I think I really
      must come out again and tramp about and think how perfectly splendid
      everything is."
    </p>
    <hr />
    <p>
      They were married a few weeks later, very quietly, in the little village
      church of Saint Brule. The secretary of the local golf-club acted as best
      man for Mortimer, and a girl from the hotel was the only bridesmaid. The
      whole business was rather a disappointment to Mortimer, who had planned
      out a somewhat florid ceremony at St. George's, Hanover Square, with the
      Vicar of Tooting (a scratch player excellent at short approach shots)
      officiating, and "The Voice That Breathed O'er St. Andrews" boomed from
      the organ. He had even had the idea of copying the military wedding and
      escorting his bride out of the church under an arch of crossed cleeks. But
      she would have none of this pomp. She insisted on a quiet wedding, and for
      the honeymoon trip preferred a tour through Italy. Mortimer, who had
      wanted to go to Scotland to visit the birthplace of James Braid, yielded
      amiably, for he loved her dearly. But he did not think much of Italy. In
      Rome, the great monuments of the past left him cold. Of the Temple of
      Vespasian, all he thought was that it would be a devil of a place to be
      bunkered behind. The Colosseum aroused a faint spark of interest in him,
      as he speculated whether Abe Mitchell would use a full brassey to carry
      it. In Florence, the view over the Tuscan Hills from the Torre Rosa,
      Fiesole, over which his bride waxed enthusiastic, seemed to him merely a
      nasty bit of rough which would take a deal of getting out of.
    </p>
    <p>
      And so, in the fullness of time, they came home to Mortimer's cosy little
      house adjoining the links.
    </p>
    <hr />
    <p>
      Mortimer was so busy polishing his ninety-four clubs on the evening of
      their arrival that he failed to notice that his wife was preoccupied. A
      less busy man would have perceived at a glance that she was distinctly
      nervous. She started at sudden noises, and once, when he tried the newest
      of his mashie-niblicks and broke one of the drawing-room windows, she
      screamed sharply. In short her manner was strange, and, if Edgar Allen Poe
      had put her into "The Fall Of the House of Usher", she would have fitted
      it like the paper on the wall. She had the air of one waiting tensely for
      the approach of some imminent doom. Mortimer, humming gaily to himself as
      he sand-papered the blade of his twenty-second putter, observed none of
      this. He was thinking of the morrow's play.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Your wrist's quite well again now, darling, isn't it?" he said.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Yes. Yes, quite well."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Fine!" said Mortimer. "We'll breakfast early—say at half-past seven—and
      then we'll be able to get in a couple of rounds before lunch. A couple
      more in the afternoon will about see us through. One doesn't want to
      over-golf oneself the first day." He swung the putter joyfully. "How had
      we better play do you think? We might start with you giving me a half."
    </p>
    <p>
      She did not speak. She was very pale. She clutched the arm of her chair
      tightly till the knuckles showed white under the skin.
    </p>
    <p>
      To anybody but Mortimer her nervousness would have been even more obvious
      on the following morning, as they reached the first tee. Her eyes were
      dull and heavy, and she started when a grasshopper chirruped. But Mortimer
      was too occupied with thinking how jolly it was having the course to
      themselves to notice anything.
    </p>
    <p>
      He scooped some sand out of the box, and took a ball out of her bag. His
      wedding present to her had been a brand-new golf-bag, six dozen balls, and
      a full set of the most expensive clubs, all born in Scotland.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Do you like a high tee?" he asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Oh, no," she replied, coming with a start out of her thoughts. "Doctors
      say it's indigestible."
    </p>
    <p>
      Mortimer laughed merrily.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Deuced good!" he chuckled. "Is that your own or did you read it in a
      comic paper? There you are!" He placed the ball on a little hill of sand,
      and got up. "Now let's see some of that championship form of yours!"
    </p>
    <p>
      She burst into tears.
    </p>
    <p>
      "My darling!"
    </p>
    <p>
      Mortimer ran to her and put his arms round her. She tried weakly to push
      him away.
    </p>
    <p>
      "My angel! What is it?"
    </p>
    <p>
      She sobbed brokenly. Then, with an effort, she spoke.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Mortimer, I have deceived you!"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Deceived me?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "I have never played golf in my life! I don't even know how to hold the
      caddie!"
    </p>
    <p>
      Mortimer's heart stood still. This sounded like the gibberings of an
      unbalanced mind, and no man likes his wife to begin gibbering immediately
      after the honeymoon.
    </p>
    <p>
      "My precious! You are not yourself!"
    </p>
    <p>
      "I am! That's the whole trouble! I'm myself and not the girl you thought I
      was!"
    </p>
    <p>
      Mortimer stared at her, puzzled. He was thinking that it was a little
      difficult and that, to work it out properly, he would need a pencil and a
      bit of paper.
    </p>
    <p>
      "My name is not Mary!"
    </p>
    <p>
      "But you said it was."
    </p>
    <p>
      "I didn't. You asked if you could call me Mary, and I said you might,
      because I loved you too much to deny your smallest whim. I was going on to
      say that it wasn't my name, but you interrupted me."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Not Mary!" The horrid truth was coming home to Mortimer. "You were not
      Mary Somerset?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Mary is my cousin. My name is Mabel."
    </p>
    <p>
      "But you said you had sprained your wrist playing in the championship."
    </p>
    <p>
      "So I had. The mallet slipped in my hand."
    </p>
    <p>
      "The mallet!" Mortimer clutched at his forehead. "You didn't say 'the
      mallet'?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Yes, Mortimer! The mallet!"
    </p>
    <p>
      A faint blush of shame mantled her cheek, and into her blue eyes there
      came a look of pain, but she faced him bravely.
    </p>
    <p>
      "I am the Ladies' Open Croquet Champion!" she whispered.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mortimer Sturgis cried aloud, a cry that was like the shriek of some
      wounded animal.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Croquet!" He gulped, and stared at her with unseeing eyes. He was no
      prude, but he had those decent prejudices of which no self-respecting man
      can wholly rid himself, however broad-minded he may try to be. "Croquet!"
    </p>
    <p>
      There was a long silence. The light breeze sang in the pines above them.
      The grasshoppers chirrupped at their feet.
    </p>
    <p>
      She began to speak again in a low, monotonous voice.
    </p>
    <p>
      "I blame myself! I should have told you before, while there was yet time
      for you to withdraw. I should have confessed this to you that night on the
      terrace in the moonlight. But you swept me off my feet, and I was in your
      arms before I realized what you would think of me. It was only then that I
      understood what my supposed skill at golf meant to you, and then it was
      too late. I loved you too much to let you go! I could not bear the thought
      of you recoiling from me. Oh, I was mad—mad! I knew that I could not
      keep up the deception for ever, that you must find me out in time. But I
      had a wild hope that by then we should be so close to one another that you
      might find it in your heart to forgive. But I was wrong. I see it now.
      There are some things that no man can forgive. Some things," she repeated,
      dully, "which no man can forgive."
    </p>
    <p>
      She turned away. Mortimer awoke from his trance.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Stop!" he cried. "Don't go!"
    </p>
    <p>
      "I must go."
    </p>
    <p>
      "I want to talk this over."
    </p>
    <p>
      She shook her head sadly and started to walk slowly across the sunlit
      grass. Mortimer watched her, his brain in a whirl of chaotic thoughts. She
      disappeared through the trees.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mortimer sat down on the tee-box, and buried his face in his hands. For a
      time he could think of nothing but the cruel blow he had received. This
      was the end of those rainbow visions of himself and her going through life
      side by side, she lovingly criticizing his stance and his back-swing, he
      learning wisdom from her. A croquet-player! He was married to a woman who
      hit coloured balls through hoops. Mortimer Sturgis writhed in torment. A
      strong man's agony.
    </p>
    <p>
      The mood passed. How long it had lasted, he did not know. But suddenly, as
      he sat there, he became once more aware of the glow of the sunshine and
      the singing of the birds. It was as if a shadow had lifted. Hope and
      optimism crept into his heart.
    </p>
    <p>
      He loved her. He loved her still. She was part of him, and nothing that
      she could do had power to alter that. She had deceived him, yes. But why
      had she deceived him? Because she loved him so much that she could not
      bear to lose him. Dash it all, it was a bit of a compliment.
    </p>
    <p>
      And, after all, poor girl, was it her fault? Was it not rather the fault
      of her upbringing? Probably she had been taught to play croquet when a
      mere child, hardly able to distinguish right from wrong. No steps had been
      taken to eradicate the virus from her system, and the thing had become
      chronic. Could she be blamed? Was she not more to be pitied than censured?
    </p>
    <p>
      Mortimer rose to his feet, his heart swelling with generous forgiveness.
      The black horror had passed from him. The future seemed once more bright.
      It was not too late. She was still young, many years younger than he
      himself had been when he took up golf, and surely, if she put herself into
      the hands of a good specialist and practised every day, she might still
      hope to become a fair player. He reached the house and ran in, calling her
      name.
    </p>
    <p>
      No answer came. He sped from room to room, but all were empty.
    </p>
    <p>
      She had gone. The house was there. The furniture was there. The canary
      sang in its cage, the cook in the kitchen. The pictures still hung on the
      walls. But she had gone. Everything was at home except his wife.
    </p>
    <p>
      Finally, propped up against the cup he had once won in a handicap
      competition, he saw a letter. With a sinking heart he tore open the
      envelope.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was a pathetic, a tragic letter, the letter of a woman endeavouring to
      express all the anguish of a torn heart with one of those fountain-pens
      which suspend the flow of ink about twice in every three words. The gist
      of it was that she felt she had wronged him; that, though he might
      forgive, he could never forget; and that she was going away, away out into
      the world alone.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mortimer sank into a chair, and stared blankly before him. She had
      scratched the match.
    </p>
    <hr />
    <p>
      I am not a married man myself, so have had no experience of how it feels
      to have one's wife whizz off silently into the unknown; but I should
      imagine that it must be something like taking a full swing with a brassey
      and missing the ball. Something, I take it, of the same sense of mingled
      shock, chagrin, and the feeling that nobody loves one, which attacks a man
      in such circumstances, must come to the bereaved husband. And one can
      readily understand how terribly the incident must have shaken Mortimer
      Sturgis. I was away at the time, but I am told by those who saw him that
      his game went all to pieces.
    </p>
    <p>
      He had never shown much indication of becoming anything in the nature of a
      first-class golfer, but he had managed to acquire one or two decent shots.
      His work with the light iron was not at all bad, and he was a fairly
      steady putter. But now, under the shadow of this tragedy, he dropped right
      back to the form of his earliest period. It was a pitiful sight to see
      this gaunt, haggard man with the look of dumb anguish behind his
      spectacles taking as many as three shots sometimes to get past the ladies'
      tee. His slice, of which he had almost cured himself, returned with such
      virulence that in the list of ordinary hazards he had now to include the
      tee-box. And, when he was not slicing, he was pulling. I have heard that
      he was known, when driving at the sixth, to get bunkered in his own
      caddie, who had taken up his position directly behind him. As for the deep
      sand-trap in front of the seventh green, he spent so much of his time in
      it that there was some informal talk among the members of the committee of
      charging him a small weekly rent.
    </p>
    <p>
      A man of comfortable independent means, he lived during these days on next
      to nothing. Golf-balls cost him a certain amount, but the bulk of his
      income he spent in efforts to discover his wife's whereabouts. He
      advertised in all the papers. He employed private detectives. He even,
      much as it revolted his finer instincts, took to travelling about the
      country, watching croquet matches. But she was never among the players. I
      am not sure that he did not find a melancholy comfort in this, for it
      seemed to show that, whatever his wife might be and whatever she might be
      doing, she had not gone right under.
    </p>
    <p>
      Summer passed. Autumn came and went. Winter arrived. The days grew bleak
      and chill, and an early fall of snow, heavier than had been known at that
      time of the year for a long while, put an end to golf. Mortimer spent his
      days indoors, staring gloomily through the window at the white mantle that
      covered the earth.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was Christmas Eve.
    </p>
    <hr />
    <p>
      The young man shifted uneasily on his seat. His face was long and sombre.
    </p>
    <p>
      "All this is very depressing," he said.
    </p>
    <p>
      "These soul tragedies," agreed the Oldest Member, "are never very cheery."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Look here," said the young man, firmly, "tell me one thing frankly, as
      man to man. Did Mortimer find her dead in the snow, covered except for her
      face, on which still lingered that faint, sweet smile which he remembered
      so well? Because, if he did, I'm going home."
    </p>
    <p>
      "No, no," protested the Oldest Member. "Nothing of that kind."
    </p>
    <p>
      "You're sure? You aren't going to spring it on me suddenly?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "No, no!"
    </p>
    <p>
      The young man breathed a relieved sigh.
    </p>
    <p>
      "It was your saying that about the white mantle covering the earth that
      made me suspicious."
    </p>
    <p>
      The Sage resumed.
    </p>
    <hr />
    <p>
      It was Christmas Eve. All day the snow had been falling, and now it lay
      thick and deep over the countryside. Mortimer Sturgis, his frugal dinner
      concluded—what with losing his wife and not being able to get any
      golf, he had little appetite these days—was sitting in his
      drawing-room, moodily polishing the blade of his jigger. Soon wearying of
      this once congenial task, he laid down the club and went to the front door
      to see if there was any chance of a thaw. But no. It was freezing. The
      snow, as he tested it with his shoe, crackled crisply. The sky above was
      black and full of cold stars. It seemed to Mortimer that the sooner he
      packed up and went to the South of France, the better. He was just about
      to close the door, when suddenly he thought he heard his own name called.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Mortimer!"
    </p>
    <p>
      Had he been mistaken? The voice had sounded faint and far away.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Mortimer!"
    </p>
    <p>
      He thrilled from head to foot. This time there could be no mistake. It was
      the voice he knew so well, his wife's voice, and it had come from
      somewhere down near the garden-gate. It is difficult to judge distance
      where sounds are concerned, but Mortimer estimated that the voice had
      spoken about a short mashie-niblick and an easy putt from where he stood.
    </p>
    <p>
      The next moment he was racing down the snow-covered path. And then his
      heart stood still. What was that dark something on the ground just inside
      the gate? He leaped towards it. He passed his hands over it. It was a
      human body. Quivering, he struck a match. It went out. He struck another.
      That went out, too. He struck a third, and it burnt with a steady flame;
      and, stooping, he saw that it was his wife who lay there, cold and stiff.
      Her eyes were closed, and on her face still lingered that faint, sweet
      smile which he remembered so well.
    </p>
    <hr />
    <p>
      The young man rose with a set face. He reached for his golf-bag.
    </p>
    <p>
      "I call that a dirty trick," he said, "after you promised—" The Sage
      waved him back to his seat.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Have no fear! She had only fainted."
    </p>
    <p>
      "You said she was cold."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Wouldn't you be cold if you were lying in the snow?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "And stiff."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Mrs. Sturgis was stiff because the train-service was bad, it being the
      holiday-season, and she had had to walk all the way from the junction, a
      distance of eight miles. Sit down and allow me to proceed."
    </p>
    <hr />
    <p>
      Tenderly, reverently Mortimer Sturgis picked her up and began to bear her
      into the house. Half-way there, his foot slipped on a piece of ice and he
      fell heavily, barking his shin and shooting his lovely burden out on to
      the snow.
    </p>
    <p>
      The fall brought her to. She opened her eyes.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Mortimer, darling!" she said.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mortimer had just been going to say something else, but he checked
      himself.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Are you alive?" he asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Yes," she replied.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Thank God!" said Mortimer, scooping some of the snow out of the back of
      his collar.
    </p>
    <p>
      Together they went into the house, and into the drawing-room. Wife gazed
      at husband, husband at wife. There was a silence.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Rotten weather!" said Mortimer.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Yes, isn't it!"
    </p>
    <p>
      The spell was broken. They fell into each other's arms. And presently they
      were sitting side by side on the sofa, holding hands, just as if that
      awful parting had been but a dream.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was Mortimer who made the first reference to it.
    </p>
    <p>
      "I say, you know," he said, "you oughtn't to have nipped away like that!"
    </p>
    <p>
      "I thought you hated me!"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Hated <i>you</i>! I love you better than life itself! I would sooner have
      smashed my pet driver than have had you leave me!"
    </p>
    <p>
      She thrilled at the words.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Darling!"
    </p>
    <p>
      Mortimer fondled her hand.
    </p>
    <p>
      "I was just coming back to tell you that I loved you still. I was going to
      suggest that you took lessons from some good professional. And I found you
      gone!"
    </p>
    <p>
      "I wasn't worthy of you, Mortimer!"
    </p>
    <p>
      "My angel!" He pressed his lips to her hair, and spoke solemnly. "All this
      has taught me a lesson, dearest. I knew all along, and I know it more than
      ever now, that it is you—you that I want. Just you! I don't care if
      you don't play golf. I don't care——" He hesitated, then went
      on manfully. "I don't care even if you play croquet, so long as you are
      with me!"
    </p>
    <p>
      For a moment her face showed rapture that made it almost angelic. She
      uttered a low moan of ecstasy. She kissed him. Then she rose.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Mortimer, look!"
    </p>
    <p>
      "What at?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Me. Just look!"
    </p>
    <p>
      The jigger which he had been polishing lay on a chair close by. She took
      it up. From the bowl of golf-balls on the mantelpiece she selected a brand
      new one. She placed it on the carpet. She addressed it. Then, with a merry
      cry of "Fore!" she drove it hard and straight through the glass of the
      china-cupboard.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Good God!" cried Mortimer, astounded. It had been a bird of a shot.
    </p>
    <p>
      She turned to him, her whole face alight with that beautiful smile.
    </p>
    <p>
      "When I left you, Mortie," she said, "I had but one aim in life, somehow
      to make myself worthy of you. I saw your advertisements in the papers, and
      I longed to answer them, but I was not ready. All this long, weary while I
      have been in the village of Auchtermuchtie, in Scotland, studying under
      Tamms McMickle."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Not the Tamms McMickle who finished fourth in the Open Championship of
      1911, and had the best ball in the foursome in 1912 with Jock McHaggis,
      Andy McHeather, and Sandy McHoots!"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Yes, Mortimer, the very same. Oh, it was difficult at first. I missed my
      mallet, and long to steady the ball with my foot and use the toe of the
      club. Wherever there was a direction post I aimed at it automatically. But
      I conquered my weakness. I practised steadily. And now Mr. McMickle says
      my handicap would be a good twenty-four on any links." She smiled
      apologetically. "Of course, that doesn't sound much to you! You were a
      twelve when I left you, and now I suppose you are down to eight or
      something."
    </p>
    <p>
      Mortimer shook his head.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Alas, no!" he replied, gravely. "My game went right off for some reason
      or other, and I'm twenty-four, too."
    </p>
    <p>
      "For some reason or other!" She uttered a cry. "Oh, I know what the reason
      was! How can I ever forgive myself! I have ruined your game!"
    </p>
    <p>
      The brightness came back to Mortimer's eyes. He embraced her fondly.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Do not reproach yourself, dearest," he murmured. "It is the best thing
      that could have happened. From now on, we start level, two hearts that
      beat as one, two drivers that drive as one. I could not wish it otherwise.
      By George! It's just like that thing of Tennyson's."
    </p>
    <p>
      He recited the lines softly:
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
                 <i>My bride,
    My wife, my life. Oh, we will walk the links
    Yoked in all exercise of noble end,
    And so thro' those dark bunkers off the course
    That no man knows. Indeed, I love thee: come,
    Yield thyself up: our handicaps are one;
    Accomplish thou my manhood and thyself;
    Lay thy sweet hands in mine and trust to me.</i>
</pre>
    <p>
      She laid her hands in his.
    </p>
    <p>
      "And now, Mortie, darling," she said, "I want to tell you all about how I
      did the long twelfth at Auchtermuchtie in one under bogey."
    </p>
    <p>
      <br /><br />
    </p>
    <hr />
    <p>
      <a name="link2H_4_0006" id="link2H_4_0006"> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>    
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
